Criteria api (#385)
reflectoring/reflectoring.github.io: _posts/2021-05-04-intro-to-criteria-api.md

    like(root.get("name"), '%' + (name == null ? "" : name) + '%');
  Predicate categoryPredicate = cBuilder.
    equal(root.get("category"), (category == null ? Category.TOOLS : category));

  cQuery.where(namePredicate, categoryPredicate);

  /* Create Query object **/
  TypedQuery<Product> query = em.createQuery(cQuery);

  return query.getResultList();
  }
}
````

The above code's description is as follows:

* First two lines of the method shows how to get `CriteriaBuilder` and `CriteriaQuery` to create different parts of the query
* Variable `root` is like `FROM table_name` in our query declaration introduced to the `cQuery` object
* Variables `namePredicate` and `categoryPredicate` are defined as conditions in the query. Only applied if used
as parameters of `where` method of `cQuery` object.
* We finally create the `TypedQuery` object with `em.createQuery(cQuery)`. `TypedQuery` interface is a
 subclass of `Query` interface.
 
 Objects `namePredicate` and `categoryPredicate` are predicates that construct `where` clause.

## JPA Metamodel
In the above code example, We used the name of the fields of the entity classes in the predicates like `"name"` and `"category"`.

> **Using string names of entities in the predicates has some flaws**:

Reviewer: This list of disadvantages should rather go to the end of the previous section. That brings it closer to the code and you can smoothly transition to the next section "The JPA Metamodel solves these problems, as we'll see in the next section" ...

- **It's hard to remember the name so we might need to look it up**
- **Query will need refactoring if the column's name change later**
- **It increases the chance of errors in runtime because of the possible mistype** 

> **Using JPA Metamodels fixes the above problems**. **It helps us to avoid using the column's name**. It does

Reviewer: There's too much bold in this article in general. Please go over the text and think about which sentences should really stand out and be bold. These sentences should stand on their own and not need the context of the other sentences (they maybe need some editing, as a sentence starting with "It helps..." does not have enough context on its own - instead we could say "The JPA Metamodel helps ...".

definition as you can see here:

````java
@Repository
public class ProductRepositoryImpl {

  @PersistenceContext
  EntityManager em;

  public List<Product> findProductsByNameAndCategory(
                                      String name,
                                      String category) {

    CriteriaBuilder cBuilder = em.getCriteriaBuilder();
    CriteriaQuery<Product> cQuery = cBuilder.createQuery(Product.class);

    /* FROM **/
    Root<Product> root = cQuery.from(Product.class);

    /* Conditions using Metamodel **/
    Predicate namePredicate = cBuilder.
      like(root.get(Product_.NAME), '%' + (name == null ? "" : name) + '%');
    Predicate categoryPredicate = cBuilder.
      equal(root.get(Product_.CATEGORY), (category == null ? Category.TOOLS : category));

    /* WHERE **/
    cQuery.where(namePredicate, categoryPredicate);

    /* Create Query object **/
    TypedQuery<Product> query = em.createQuery(cQuery);

    return query.getResultList();
  }
}
````
**By using Metamodel we can use `Product_.name` and `Product_.category` instead of `"name"` and `"category"`**.

> 

Reviewer: Instead of going into Specifications (see comment below), maybe add a few sections that explain more features of the Criteria API. What are common queries that we would want to do? 

* how can we combine predicates with `AND`?
* how can we combine predicates with `OR`?
* how can we add a `>`, `<`, `>=`, `<=` comparison to a where clause?
* how can we join two tables?
* how can we query for a list of items?
* how can we query for a single item (and what happens if the query returns multiple items)?

After all, this article is about the Criteria API, and should not be about Specifications too much

> ## Specifications

Reviewer: There already is a whole article about Specifications on reflectoring: https://reflectoring.io/spring-data-specifications/. This even uses a very similar example. I think it's enough to explain Specifications in a few sentences here and maybe with a single code example and link to that article here (sorry for the effort you put into this).

**Specifications build on top of the Criteria API** to simplify the developer experience. Let's take a look at the Spring 
Data Jpa query method's downsides first. Then we see how it can be better by JPA Specification. 

````java
interface ProductRepository {
  List<Product> findAllByNameLikeAndPriceLessThanEqual(
          String name,
          Double price
  );
}
````
**Using the Spring Data query methods has some problems**:

> * **The length of the query method might increase significantly depending on number of criteria**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **The length of the query method name might increase significantly depending on number of input parameters**
```
